app/README.md, before:

# App

Mobile app built with Flutter.

## Getting Started

Install Flutter. On mac this can be installed with

```
$ brew install --cask flutter
```

Updates of Flutter dependencies should be handled by dependabot. To update dependencies as per lock file
run

```
$ flutter pub get
```

To run the app start a phone simulator (Android or iOS) and run

```
$ flutter run
```

## Build app icons

The source file is `icon.ai`. A PNG is then created and put into `assets/icons/icon.png`.

You can then run the following commands to generate icons for both android and ios.

```
flutter pub get
flutter pub run flutter_launcher_icons:main
```

## Screenshots

For apple the following devices can be used for correct resolution images

- 5.5", iPhone 8 Plus
- 6.5", iPhone 14
- iPad 12.9 inch 2nd Gen
- iPad 12.9 inch 6th Gen (3rd gen screenshot)

For android the following devices can be used for correct resolution images

- "Phone Screenshots", Pixel 3a

## Developer Notes

### Dependency Install Notes

Install dependencies

```bash
brew install ruby

```

Configure .zshrc

```bash
# toodo
```

### Upgrade Gems/Fastlane

In the `ios` and `android` folders run the following

```bash
# Update all gems
$ bundle update

```

Commit message:

📝 Update readme to include widgetbooks

app/README.md, after:

# App

Mobile app built with Flutter.

## Getting Started

Install Flutter. On mac this can be installed with

```
$ brew install --cask flutter
```

Updates of Flutter dependencies should be handled by dependabot. To update dependencies as per lock file
run

```
$ flutter pub get
```

To run the app start a phone simulator (Android or iOS) and run

```
$ flutter run
```

## Widgetbook

To simplify widget creation Widgetbooks has been configured so that individual widgets can be created independent of one another.

See the below commands to run widgetbooks

```bash
# Build widgetbooks
flutter pub run build_runner build

# Watch for changes so you don't have to manually rebuild all the time
flutter pub run build_runner watch

# Run chrome widgetbook UI. Note you have to push "r" as it doesn't auto refresh changes
bash flutter run -d chrome -t lib/widgetbook.dart
```

## Build app icons

The source file is `icon.ai`. A PNG is then created and put into `assets/icons/icon.png`.

You can then run the following commands to generate icons for both android and ios.

```
flutter pub get
flutter pub run flutter_launcher_icons:main
```

## Screenshots

For apple the following devices can be used for correct resolution images

- 5.5", iPhone 8 Plus
- 6.5", iPhone 14
- iPad 12.9 inch 2nd Gen
- iPad 12.9 inch 6th Gen (3rd gen screenshot)

For android the following devices can be used for correct resolution images

- "Phone Screenshots", Pixel 3a

## Developer Notes

### Dependency Install Notes

Install dependencies

```bash
brew install ruby

```

Configure .zshrc

```bash
# toodo
```

### Upgrade Gems/Fastlane

In the `ios` and `android` folders run the following

```bash
# Update all gems
$ bundle update

```
